COS_20083_Assignment-2
COS20083 ADVANCED DATA ANALYTICS Assignment 2

The best way to learn data science is to do data science. In this assignment, you will implement a data science project end-to-end including business problem understanding, data exploration, preliminary analysis, model building and evaluation in a web-based data-science environment known as Kaggle. Kaggle is the world’s largest online community of data scientists and machine learning practitioners where companies could also host competitions for data scientists to solve real-world data science challenges. The data science problem to be tackled in this assignment is to predict which clients are more likely to default on their loans. The evaluation will favor solutions that are stable over time. Your participation may offer consumer finance providers a more reliable and longer-lasting way to assess a potential client’s default risk.

“The absence of a credit history might mean a lot of things, including young age or a preference for cash. Without traditional data, someone with little to no credit history is likely to be denied. Consumer finance providers must accurately determine which clients can repay a loan and which cannot and data is key. If data science could help better predict one’s repayment capabilities, loans might become more accessible to those who may benefit from them the most. Currently, consumer finance providers use various statistical and machine learning methods to predict loan risk. These models are generally called scorecards. In the real world, clients' behaviors change constantly, so every scorecard must be updated regularly, which takes time. The scorecard's stability in the future is critical, as a sudden drop in performance means that loans will be issued to worse clients on average. The core of the issue is that loan providers can’t spot potential problems any sooner than the first due dates of those loans are observable. Given the time it takes to redevelop, validate, and implement the scorecard, stability is highly desirable. There is a trade-off between the stability of the model and its performance, and a balance must be reached before deployment. Founded in 1997, competition host Home Credit is an international consumer finance provider focusing on responsible lending primarily to people with little or no credit history. Home Credit broadens financial inclusion for the unbanked population by creating a positive and safe borrowing experience. Your work in helping to assess potential clients' default risks will enable consumer finance providers to accept more loan applications. This may improve the lives of people who have historically been denied due to lack of credit history.” (Kaggle, 2024). You’re expected to work as a team and to perform independent research to build a successful and stable model with greatest accuracy. For more information or if you have any question regarding the problem statement, please visit the competition website. Good luck!

Reference: Daniel Herman, Tomas Jelinek, Walter Reade, Maggie Demkin, Addison Howard. (2024). Home Credit - Credit Risk Model Stability. Kaggle. https://kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-credit-risk-modelstability

General Steps and Requirements

Data Understanding and Collection: Apart from demonstrating clear understanding of the problem statement and competition dataset provided on Kaggle, you may leverage on the ideas from the community discussion section, use new libraries or obtain additional external data or references. You will need to save and submit all the data used in your submission.
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA): Extract, transform and load the data and information from Step 1 into a dataframe and perform EDA to identify attributes that could potentially be used for model building. You are at liberty to add or remove columns and rows from the dataframe such as: a. remove unwanted attributes and rows from the dataframe, b. renames columns in the dataframe, c. create new attributes as part of the feature engineering, d. perform any relevant data cleaning, pre-processing or preliminary analysis with appropriate visualizations and plots
Model Building and Evaluation: Build a machine learning model to predict which Place entries represent the same point-of-interest. Note that each Place entry includes attributes like the name, street address, and coordinates. A successful model should identify matches with the greatest accuracy and you will need to evaluate the performance of your model. The assignment report must explain the following: a. the training process and the model created, b. attributes that have the greatest effect on the predictions, c. the performance of the model created, d. how the model can be used to predict the matching locations
Challenge: Choose a cross-validation approach to validate your model. Your report should: a. explain the cross-validation approach, b. evaluate the performance of the model created, c. participate on Kaggle Discussion during the development, and d. the submission notebook and ranking on the Kaggle Leaderboard
Marking scheme (20 marks) 1 Data collection and understanding (ETL) 4 marks 2 Exploratory data analysis (EDA) 4 marks 3 Model selection and detailed explanation 4 marks 4 Model evaluation and validation 3 marks 5 Discussion and participation on Kaggle 1 mark 6 Overall quality and submission score on Kaggle 4 marks
